the other day my girlfriend Melissa told
me that she saw a new video from a
natural vegan and I said wow I'm really
glad you saw it and I didn't see it
because I'd probably be compelled to
make some kind of catty response video
if I were so unfortunate as to see it
here I was minding my own business and
engaged in an activity that a natural
vegan herself would definitely approve
of I was in fact ordering a huge tub of
vegan protein powder online when to my
great misfortune I clicked on and
started listening to in the background
the new video from a natural vegan okay
now let's talk about sentience I brought
this up in one of my recent videos
criticizing and we're pointing to a
natural vegan and I did actually get
several messages sent in to me I
received messages in different forms of
conda's saying oh no no no unnatural
vegan just misspoke she really does
understand the strict definition of
sentience she just happened to use her
words incorrectly when she made the
ridiculous claim ridiculous that social
insects such as bees and ants when she
made the claim that insects do not have
sentience or that scientists are
genuinely divided and are yet to
determine whether or not they have
sayings now a game that unnatural vegan
likes to play with her opponents is have
you even looked that word up in a
dictionary she does that all the time
I've seen her done at NOAA doing all
kinds of snotty and insincere ways let's
look up the word sentient in the
dictionary sentient able to perceive or
feel things sentient sentience has to do
with feeling period and that's in the
etymology of the word going back to
original Latin usage sentience is about
feeling it's not about dreaming
it's not about planning for the future
you
not about complex philosophical
cognition feeling now many people are
misled as to what sentience is because
most of the debates we hear about it in
modern Western culture growing up are
from science fiction where we're more
Norma Thalia with the emergence of
sentience amongst computers or robots
and we have this dream this fantasy that
computers develop more and more
sophisticated Quebec capabilities in
terms of memory and seeming intelligence
and then at some point when they're
incredibly advanced they cross over a
threshold from not merely mimicking
human intelligence from not merely
following human instructions they pass
over a threshold into being genuinely
sentient in their own right this script
has played out I think on every major
science fiction TV show definitely
including the Star Trek The Next
Generation series and numerous others
Star Trek The Next Generation had one
episode where the robot character the
Android is literally put on trial to
determine whether or not he's he's
accountable for his decisions in the
same way that human being is whether he
is in some sense sentient or truly alive
or truly aware now that puts in people's
mind the expectation that when we are
debating animal sentience we look at a
dog as if it were a computer or a very
advanced robot that the dog mimics human
emotions that it mimics human reason and
that it follows human instructions that
humans can train the dog to perform
complex tasks in the same way that we
train a computer or trainer or two but
only at some higher level do they become
sentient and this is completely false
the reason why computers and robots are
thought of this way and not animals is
precisely because sentience is about
feeling it's about response to stimuli
now even if you did not know that
there's a relatively advanced test for
self-awareness self-awareness is not the
same as sentience which is called the
mirror test okay
I quote Wikipedia a Belgian study from
2015 proved that three different species
of ant it gives the Latin names for the
three of a species of ant did pass the
mirror test this is a test where they
take an ant and they put a tiny dot of
blue paint on the ants face apparently
face is not the scientifically correct
term to use for an ant but we continue
nevertheless and they see if the ant
recognizes that this is a picture of
oneself when it looks in the mirror
takes an interest sees the blue dot and
then feels at its own face trying to get
rid of or deal with the blue dot so in
other words the ant doesn't just look at
the mirror and imagine that it's seeing
a different ant it looks in the mirror
and realizes this is a reflection of
myself and this is proven ostensibly by
the fact that the ant doesn't try to
scratch the blue dot on the mirror it
tries to scratch the blue dot on its own
face wondering what this what this
double penis and the test there are
tests to make sure that the ant doesn't
just know that the blue dot is there
anyway whether or not they investigate
the blue dot when left to their own
devices without a mirror whether they're
aware of it somehow by feeling or
what-have-you
this is not the case okay ants ants do
not merely have sentience they have an
advanced enough level of self-awareness
that it shows up in the highly imperfect
frankly mirror test for advanced
cognitive abilities for self reflection
for self-awareness
that's not sentience so unnatural vegan
is now repeatedly claimed that insects
do not have sentience and she has now
suggested she has now recommended eating
oysters because she claims some
scientists some scientists think that
oysters do not have sentience what's
really significant here are not the
details of the proof that oysters yes
even the lowly
oyster is indeed sentient what's really
worth reflecting on is the motivation of
the liar and why she is lying to you
in both cases veganism as an ethic is
based on doing the best you can possibly
do and we all admit in some ways being
perfectly vegan in 2018 is impossible I
do not know for a fact but I would
assume that the the paint on the walls
of this apartment is not vegan you can
look that up a very large percentage of
indoor paints are not vegan the glue
that holds my carpet to the ground is
probably not Ving I'll know that I
didn't buy this carpet I didn't install
it the glue that keeps the sole of my
shoes
attached to the shoe is quite possibly
non vegan although from my perspective I
made every effort to buy a vegan shoe
the shoe doesn't have leather we live in
a world that is in this way
unbelievably imperfect from a vegan
perspective we live in a world where I
can make every effort to only buy bread
that is vegan but when I sit down in a
restaurant the bread they serve me the
waiter may tell me it's vegan but it
actually contains chemical additives
like l-cysteine and the waiter probably
doesn't even know what else cysteine is
there are trace amounts of things that
are not vegan we all live we struggle
with the impossibility of being a
hundred percent vegan in a world that is
zero percent vegan okay with that having
been duly noted if you sincerely believe
that an oyster is something inert and
unfeeling it puts you in the absurd
position of believing that the parasites
that live on the back of the oyster have
more animal rights than the oyster
itself there are smaller sea creatures
that have a very hard a tongue that
affixed themselves to the shell of the
oyster and gradually drill through the
shell of the oyster to eat the oyster
within these parasites are somewhat
famous in human history because people
would intentionally collect them crush
them kill them to produce a shade of
purple
I that was associated with royalty
associated with purple robes of the
emperor in ancient Rome lily was
associated with royalty and various
medieval cultures in Europe thereafter
this is a famous form of purple dye
coming from a an entirely sentient
creature because there are tiny little
crawfish in the ocean there are tiny
little creatures like that if you just
want something you can you can imagine
that have eyes and a heart and a mouth
that of all the moving parts we can
recognize as indicating life in a way
that Easter's do not and there are
little creatures like that that
literally live on the back of the oyster
so if you commit to this pernicious view
this excuse that the oyster itself
deserves no animal rights because it
doesn't meet your ridiculous fictional
made-up definition of sentience your
definition of sentience that has more to
do with the fictional character of
Commander data on Star Trek and you
goddamn know it your definition of
sentience that you didn't even bother to
check against a common dictionary let
alone look into the medical and
scientific literature about how
sentience and self-awareness are tested
in the sciences you would have to lament
the fact that vegan that oysters are
still not vegan because it is completely
inevitable that you are scraping off and
killing smaller creatures that live on
the back of the oysters as parasites in
order to kill and eat the oyster think
about how ridiculous that is do oysters
feel yes they do they respond to stimuli
hoisters all oysters have very simple
eyes on their top surface for lack of a
better and anatomical term here they can
detect the difference between shadow and
light at low tide when they open when
they are yawning if a bird flies
overhead such as a seagull they will
suddenly snap shut this has been
incredibly commonly observed since
ancient times
if a dog wanders along and tries to eat
an oyster again this has been observed
and there are fishermen's stories about
it what have you tries to stick it's no
most often tries to get stung in the
oyster will snap shut in self-defense
and the dog will then drown to death
when the tide comes in in complete
misery as you can imagine this is the
sort of thing that in fishermen's
villages and seaside villages even
though it's only observed once in a
while was very memorable for people
there were a lot of funny stories around
about the oyster that managed to kill a
dog obviously if you actually look at
videotape of oyster behavior at the
bottom of the deep blue sea you see all
kinds of other examples
Easter's actually are motile they
actually do relocate they go through a
procedure of floating up a little bit in
the water and then slamming shut in
order to scoot themselves along and try
to get into a revelatory relatively
advantageous position I have read
genuine scientific reports discussing
and describing this and how this was how
this phenomena was first discovered and
then how when laboratories they tried to
figure out how hosters actually relocate
the mystery being that oysters have such
primitive sensory organs how did they
figure out you know how do they figure
out they're upside down and things like
this this was kind of the interest from
a scientific perspective but none of
those scientific reports had any doubt
that oysters qualified as sentient I
understand why meat-eaters want to
mystify themselves and others as to the
meaning of the word sentient because
there are people who are to be once
really into making excuses for murder
what I do not understand is why anyone
anyone who is ostensibly vegan no matter
how little sincerity you may have no
matter how little sympathy for the
animals you may have no matter how
little concern for ecology you may have
no matter how small your sense of
personal responsibility may be what
motivates you to make these excuses to
pass off pseudoscience as science tool I
now repeat
about the nature and definition of
sentience for insects and oysters to
make people feel better about their bad
habits to encourage people to eat honey
and oysters and mushed up bugs in bug
paste I suppose what is it that
motivates you to try to draw this line
in a way that's ultimately going to
flatter and perpetuate the needless
exploitation of animals by human beings
veganism is about doing the best you can
and you may have to kill cockroaches
every day you may have to don't make the
excuse don't kid yourself the
cockroaches are alive they're sentient
they desire they feel they suffer and
they die and if you've got to kill them
don't take any joy in it don't indulge
in any kind of self-deception face up to
your own moral responsibility accept the
imperfections that come with this life
buckle down and live it